Page 5 of developer documentation : specific topics (#975)
Nemocas/Nemo.jl: docs/src/developer/topics.md

algebraic computations, particularly for rings and fields.

### `divexact` and `divides`

Nemo implements numerous kinds of division:

* floating point division using the `/` operator as per Julia
* exact division in a ring using `divexact` and `divides`
* quotient field element construction using `//` as per Julia
* Euclidean division using `div`, `rem`, `divrem`, `mod` and `%`

The expression `divexact(a, b)` for `a` and `b` in a ring `R` returns a value
`c` in `R` such that `a = bc`. If such an element of `R` does not exist, an
exception is raised.

To instead test whether such an element exists, `divides(a, b)` returns a tuple
`(flag, q)` where `flag` is a boolean saying whether such an exact quotient
exists in the ring and if so `q` is such a quotient.

### Euclidean division

Nemo must provide Euclidean division, i.e. given `a` and `b` in a Euclidean
ring `R` it must be able to find `q` and `r` such that `a = bq + r` with `r`
smaller than `a` with respect to some fixed Euclidean function on `R`.
There are some restrictions imposed by Julia however.

Firstly, defining `rem` in Julia automatically defines `%` in the same way, so

> these are not actually two independent functions.

Author: Fixed.

Julia defines `div`, `rem` and `divrem` for integers as a triple of functions
that return Euclidean quotient and remainder, where the remainder has the same
sign as the dividend, e.g. `rem(1, 3) == 1` but `rem(-2, 3) == -2`. In other
words, this triple of functions gives Euclidean division, but without a
consistent set of representatives.

> When using Nemo at the console `div`, `rem` and `divrem` return the same values

Author: Yes I see your point. I reworded this a bit to be more precise.

the remainder the same as the dividend over `ZZ`, e.g. `rem(ZZ(1), ZZ(3)) == 1`
but `rem(ZZ(-2), ZZ(3)) == -2`.

Internally however, this is not convenient. For example, Hermite normal form
over `ZZ` will only return a unique result if there is a consistent choice of
representatives for the Euclidean division. The Julia definition of `rem` will
not suffice.

Furthermore, as Nemo wraps Flint, it is convenient that Euclidean division
inside Nemo should operate the way Flint operates. This is critical if for
example one wants the result of a Hermite normal form coming from Flint to be
reduced using the same definition of Euclidean remainder as used elsewhere
throughout the Nemo module.

In particular, Flint defines Euclidean remainder over the integers in line with
the Julia function `mod`, namely by returning the smallest remainder with the
same sign as the *divisor*, i.e. `mod(1, 3) == 1` but `mod(1, -3) == -2`.

Therefore internally, Nemo chooses `div`, `mod` and `divrem` to be a consistent
triple of functions for Euclidean division, with `mod` defined as per Julia.
Thus in particular, `div` and `divrem` behave differently to Julia inside of

> Nemo itself, viz. `Nemo.divrem(1, 3) == (0, 1)`.

Author: Yes indeed, I did intend a different example. Fixed.

constructions vs the specialised implementations provided by C libraries like
Flint.

Whilst most developers will not need to use the Generic module specifically,
unless they have such needs, all Nemo developers need to understand how to
define new generic ring constructions and functions for them. They also need
to understand some subtleties that arise because of this mechanism.

Firstly, a generic construction like `PolynomialRing` must be defined inside
the Generic submodule of AbstractAlgebra. All files inside the `src/generic`
directory of AbstractAlgebra exist for this purpose. However, exporting from
that submodule will not export the functionality to the Nemo user.

To do this, one must add a function `PolynomialRing` for example, in
`src/AbstractAlgebra.jl` which calls `Generic.PolynomialRing`. Then one needs
to export `PolynomialRing` from AbstractAlgebra (also in that file).

Similarly, all functions provided for generic polynomial rings are not
automatically available, even when exported from the Generic submodule.

Two additional things are required, namely an import from Generic into
AbstractAlgebra and then and export from AbstractAlgebra to the user.

> Two large tables exist in `src/AbstractAlgebra` with these imports and exports.

Author: Fixed.

These are kept in alphabetical order to prevent duplicate imports/exports being
added over time.

If one wishes to extend a definition provided by Base, one can simply overload
`Base.blah` inside the Generic submodule directly. Exceptions to this include
the `div`, `mod`, `divrem`, `sqrt`, `inv` and `exp` functions mentioned above.

For AbstractAlgebra types, one still defines these exceptions `blah` by
overloading `Base.blah` directly inside Generic. However, for the versions that
would conflict with the Julia definition (e.g. the definition for `Int`), we
instead define `AbstractAlgebra.blah` for that specific type and a fallback
`AbstractAlgebra.blah(a::T) where T` which calls the Base version of the

> function for all other types `T`. Of course we do not export `blah` from

Author: Yeah fair enough. The code should probably be changed to match I guess.

performance characteristics of a new object being created per operation will
result, meaning that the developer will not be able to reason about the likely
performance of unsafe operators.

### Interaction of unsafe operators and immutable types

Because not all objects in Nemo are mutable, the unsafe operators somehow have
to support immutable objects. This is done by also returning the "modified"
return value from the unsafe operators. Naturally, this return value is not a
mutated version of the original value, as that is not possible. However, it
does allow the unsafe operators to accept immutable values in their first
argument. Instead of modifying this value, the old value is replaced with the
return value of the unsafe operator.

In order to make this work correctly, every single call to an unsafe operator
must assign the return value to the original location. This requires discipline
on the part of the developer using unsafe operators.

For example, to set the existing value `a` to `a + b` one must write

```julia
a = addeq!(a, b)
```

In the case of a mutable type, `addeq!` will simply modify the original `a`.

> The modified object will be returned and assigned to the exact same place,

Author: Sure, fixed.

parent. In particular, `R(a)` cannot be used to make a copy of `a` for use
in an unsafe function if `R` is the parent of `a`.

All other functions *may* also return the input object if they wish. In other
words, the return value of all other functions is not suitable for use in
an unsafe function. Only return values of arithmetic operations and `deepcopy`
will be suitable for such use.

This convention has been chosen to maximise performance of Nemo. Low level
operations (where performance matters) make a new object, even if the result
is the same arithmetically as one of the inputs. But higher level functions
will not necessarily make a new object, meaning that they cannot be used with
unsafe functions.

### Aliasing rules

We now summarise the aliasing rules used by Nemo and AbstractAlgebra. We are
relatively confident by now that following these rules will result in correct
code given the constraints mentioned above.

* matrices are viewed as containers which may contain elements that alias one
another. Other objects, e.g. polynomials, series, etc., are constructed from
objects that do not alias one another, *even in part*.

> * standard unsafe operators, addeq!, mul!, addmul!, zero!, add!, are allowed
> to mutate their outputs iff the output is entirely under the control of the
> caller, i.e. it was created for the purpose of accumulation, but otherwise
> must not modify any inputs or outputs

Reviewer: This sounds confusing, as `addeq!` etal. don't know about the context where they are used, their job is to mutate when possible. I believe you mean something like the following?
```suggestion
* standard unsafe operators, addeq!, mul!, addmul!, zero!, add!, are allowed to be used 
to mutate their outputs iff the output is entirely under the control of the
caller, i.e. it was created for the purpose of accumulation, but otherwise
must not be used.
```

Author: Yeah hopefully that is what is meant. I changed it.

* all arithmetic functions unary minus, `+`, `-`, `*`, `^` and deepcopy must
return new objects and cannot return one of their inputs

* all other functions are allowed to return their inputs as outputs

* matrix functions with an exclamation mark should not mutate the objects that

> occur as entries of the output matrix, though should be allowed to arbitrarily

Reviewer: Maybe
```suggestion
occur as entries of the input matrix, though should be allowed to arbitrarily
```
?

Author: No I really mean output here, i.e. the matrix that can be modified because the function is unsafe.

replace/swap the entries that appear in the matrix. In other words, these
functions should be interpreted as inplace operations, rather than operations
that are allowed to mutate the actual entries themselves.

* `R(a)` where `R` is the parent of `a`, always just returns `a` and not a copy

* `setcoeff!` and `setindex!` and `getcoeff` and `getindex` should not make
copies. Note that this implies that setcoeff! should not be passed an element
that aliases another somewhere else, even in part!

* Constructors for polynomials, series and similar ring element objects (that
are not matrices) that take an array as input, must ensure that the

> coefficients being placed into the object do not alias, even in part

Reviewer: ```suggestion
coefficients being placed into the object do not alias, even in part.
```

Author: Well only one of the bullet points has a full stop, so I just removed that instead.
